Speakers: James Batchelor (Journalist, GamesIndustry.biz), Dinga Bakaba (Studio Director, Arkane Studios), Warren Spector (CCO, OtherSide Entertainment), Brenda Romero (CEO, Romero Games), Sam Barlow (Game Director, Climax Studios), Caroline Marchal (CEO, INT./NIGHT), Aaryn Flynn (CEO, Inflexion Games), Rami Ismail (Founder, Vlambeer), Ian Livingstone (Founder, Games Workshop), Allan Cudico (Founder, Twin Drums), Chella Ramanan (Founder, 3-Fold Games), Gina Jackson (Founder, GameDev Bootcamps), Shahid Ahmad (DeepWell DTx), AJ Grand-Scrutton (CEO, Dlala Studios), Stephane D'Astous (D'Astous Management), Cinzia Musio (Splash Damage), Sitara Shefta (No Brakes Games), Noirin Carmody (Revolution Software)

# Overview
Business advice and takeaways from industry luminaries and some of the most promising up-and-coming developers: how the business of video games has evolved since 2002 - and where it is heading next. 

# The Biggest Changes in the Games Industry in the Last 20 Years
1. From Retail to Digital Distribution 
2. Democratisation of development with more available game engines
3. The rise of indie games & Self-publishing: more diversity
4. Expansion of gaming audience through Mobile Games, Free-to-play, Casual & Social Games
5. Live Service games & Microtransactions
6. Online gaming (console / mobile)
7. Streaming / Cloud gaming
8. Esports
9. Early Access
10. VR / AR / XR / MR

# What are the biggest Lessons you've learned over the past 20 Years?
1. More diverse game developers are bringing new perspectives: talk to them & hear what they have to say. Both Juniors and Seniors can learn a lot from each other. - Dinga Bakaba
2. You're only as good as your team. If you want to do something memorable, you need a great team that buys into a clear vision. Lay out the appropriate success criteria for a game: for some it's about making lots of money while reaching many people, some define it as hitting a budget or schedule, some find it as advancing the state of the art in ways that influence other game makers, or making games people will still be talking about 20 years later. Failures happen to even the best teams, but we have to be able to say we gave it our best shot. Get out of the way & let the team loose as long as they don't stray from the vision of success, they'll conceive & build things better than you can imagine. - Warren Spector
3. Make 2 checklists when deciding on a hire or a publisher deal: Primary Checklist - why should you hire this person / do this deal? Secondary Checklist - why should you not hire this person / do this deal (.e.g. affiliation with hate groups, dictatorial tendencies, etc)? Pay close attention to the Secondary Checklist even if a person has ticked every single box in the Primary Checklist. You will spend far more time on your hiring failures than you will on the great people. Root that out as quickly as you can, do not let any of that in, otherwise it will cause you great difficulty. - Brenda Romero
4. Don't be afraid to listen to yourself, make something that directly follows your own curiosities & desires rather than trying to please an audience. The more specific and personal it is, the greater the chance that when the game is finished there will be people for whom that game really resonates with. Think about the game you want to play that doesn't exist and call that into existence. -  Sam Barlow
5. Don't give up even if it's stressful. - Caroline Marchal
6. Things are often easier done than said. Don't be shy about being hands-on, reactive and supportive to make sure you have the best info possible. You can spend a lot of time debating and wondering what the truth of something is, or you can take steps to resolve it through playable proveable prototypes. Decision making is about information - it's not about time, often a physical interactive playable prototype will give you the information you need. - Aaryn Flynn 
7. Make sure good people have the tools to stay. As an industry, we've slowly gotten better but there's a lot left to do. We started talking about crunch, working conditions, mental health, representation, marginalisation, and fair power structures, but ultimately they're all saying the same thing - we want good people to stay. Don't let anybody do anything that damage your ability to stay. If someone tells you to overwork, it is never worth it. If someone is being a bully, talk to people and make sure they end up paying for what they're doing. Fight for other people's ability to stay. - Rami Ismail
8. Owning intellectual property is fundamental to the value of any company, greater value will be established through these IP. Do not be afraid of failure, it's just success working in progress. It's important to partner with someone who knows the business side of the games industry. - Ian Livingstone
9. If red lines are being crossed, just fire that person to protect your team. - Allan Cudico
10. 3 most important things that kept me going: passion, people and persistence. Find that thing that drives you (for me it's telling marginalised stories). Surround yourself with people who inspire, support and challenge you. Making games is hard, that's why you need passion and those people to presevere through adversity. - Chella Ramanan
11. Our failure to cut through mainstream media impacts how the general public sees us both as an industry and as a cultural medium. We need to find individuals who can be our culture ambassadors for games, not to shy away from the prejudice about what we do. Everyone knows we make more money than film and TV, but do we have a bigger cultural impact than they do? - Gina Jackson 
12. If you love what you do, you do it. Don't look for permission, only you can make the things that you love so make what you want and make it unquestionably yours. - Shahid Ahmad
13. Nothing is more important than the people you work with and the poeple you hire. It's all about hiring right, not hiring quickly. It can be very easy to fall into this tendency when you have gaps on your team to fill these gaps as quickly as possible, but it's important that you find the right people to fit those gaps. Bring someone in who doesn't just have the right skill set but also is complementary to the rest of the team. This doesn't mean finding identical personalities, attitudes and tastes, anyone you bring in should disrupt your team in a positive way. - AJ Grand-Scrutton
14. 2 things that can reduce a lot of time and frustration: Don't believe in shortcuts. Do your homework. Great shortcuts don't exist, the path to success is not a short one. You need to work smartly and with a lot of teamwork. You need to be courageous and uncover all the stones that are in your path. Knowing all the risks is a good headstart, you need to get out of your comfort zone and ask yourself a lot of tough questions. Improvisation in business is a killer. When you're not ready and you do not anticipate, that's when you're losing ground. - Stephane D'Astous
15. Empathy skills can take you very far and make all of us much better. Start speaking to people around you, learning their stories, looking at what they are doing and what their life has been like - this does not just improve your empathy skills, but it's a great source of creativity that you can take to your games and make everything you do better. - Cinzia Musio
16. It's okay to do things differently. Just because something might be the industry standard practice doesn't mean it's actually the best way for you, your team or your game. We're all creative people in games, sometimes we need a little more creativity when it comes to our processes and best practices. During the larger part of my career, teams I've worked with have used processes like Sprints and Agile because they're often the proven or tried and tested methods. When we first started working on our current projects at No Brakes Games, we adopted these processes as it's what we knew from our past roles, but about a year into development we realised we weren't succeeding. We were failing at things like sprint goals which didn't make us feel great, we realised we got too constrained by time pressure or arbitrary deadlines. After some research we moved to a hybrid method of lean development and Agile. As developers we should be more open and creative thinking when it comes to processes, sometimes it's better to ditch the norm to help boost quality, momentum and morale. Give people as much trust and flexibility as you can to get the best results. - Sitara Shefta
17. Respect your audience and engage with them, allow them to criticise you if you're not doing the right thing. - Noirin Carmody
18. Always keep an eye out on the scope of the project, because it's definitely going to get out of hand. - James Batchelor

_(Note: missing 2 speakers as they couldn't turn up)_
